# Episode 4: Adding More Bandages Features

Welcome back to another episode of MWSE Modding Tutorial. So our mod is almost complete. This is gonna be the final episode. We'll first looking at some scripts from OAAB_Data and then add some additional features for bandages ourselves.

## OAAB_Data Bandages

OAAB_Data actually has already come with a feature for bandages. It plays the bandaging sound instead of the potion drinking sound. We can take a look at how they do it in `\OAAB\MiscPotions\main.lua`.

This is a great way for beginners to learn how to mod with MWSE-Lua. By looking at other people's scripts. All of the MWSE-Lua code ever published on Nexusmods are all hosted in the [mwse-lua-dump](https://github.com/MWSE/morrowind-nexus-lua-dump). Great resource. So check that out.

Back to OAAB_Data,

```Lua
-- Prevent drink sounds
local function stopDrinkSounds(e)
    if not e.item.id:find("^AB_alc_") then return end

    addBlockedSound(e.reference, "drink")
    event.trigger("OAAB:equip", e)
end
event.register("equip", stopDrinkSounds, {priority = 1000})
```

It registers the `equip` event with very high priority to ensure it runs first. Then it checks if the `item` equip here has an `id` that starts with "AB_alc_". Here, the caret symbol `^` anchors the pattern at the beginning of the string.

Then it calls the `addBlockedSound()` function to block the drink sound from playing. Then it triggers a `"OAAB:equip"` event with `e` as the event data, which is the `equipEventData`. 

Next, let's look at another script from OAAB_Data, `\OAAB\Bandages\main.lua`. This is the script we are gonna base our script on. 

```Lua hl_lines="1-8 12"
local function bandageEquipEvent(e)
    if (e.item.id:find("^AB_alc_HealBandage")) then
        tes3.playSound({
            reference = e.reference,
            sound = "AB_Bandaging"
        })
    end
end
...
    event.register("Ashfall:ActivateBushcrafting:Registered",
	               registerBushcraftingRecipe)
    event.register("OAAB:equip", bandageEquipEvent)
    log:info("Initialized")
```

It registers the `"OAAB:equip"` event instead of `equip`. This is to make sure that the script from `MiscPotions` runs first. Then it checks if the equip item `id` starts with "AB_alc_HealBandage". If so, play the "AB_Bandaging"`sound. 

## Adding Our Own Features

So we're gonna write a script that's based on this logic to implement two features I want to add for bandages.

First is I want to get rid of the magical visual effect when using a bandage. 

The second feature I want to add is that the duration of the healing effect varies depending on your character's survival skill. So if your skill is at level 20, it heals for 20 seconds; and if your skill is at 40, heals 40 seconds.

So let's do that. First, we copy this script to our main.lua. Casual reminder that do give credit to the source. Here we're copying from Greatness7's script. And before we are using Merlord's script. 

Instead of `playSound`, we want to block the magical visual effect from playing. We can do it by blocking the event and apply the magical effect ourselves.

To block an event, `return false`. And to apply magical effect, we use the `applyMagicSource` function from `tes3` API. Here we pass a table of magic effect to mimic the vanilla behaviour. 

```Lua hl_lines="4-16"
---@param e equipEventData
local function bandageEquipEvent(e)
	if (e.item.id:find("^AB_alc_HealBandage")) then
        tes3.applyMagicSource({
			reference = e.reference,
			name = "Bandage",
			effects = {
				{
					id = tes3.effect.restoreHealth,
					duration = 30,
					min = 1,
					max = 1,
				},
			},
		})
        return false
	end
end
```

We also need to remove the potion, once the magic effect is applied. Here we need to put removeItem() inside a `timer.delayOneFrame()`. Otherwise, your game will crash. 

The default timer type for `delayOneFrame()` is `simulate` time. But if we want to see the bandage gets remove immediately after we use it, we need to set it to `timer.real`. 

```Lua hl_lines="2-8"
    	})
        timer.delayOneFrame(function()
			tes3.removeItem({
				reference = e.reference,
				item = e.item,
				playSound = false,
			})
		end, timer.real)
        return false
```

Also, it's nice to have a message popup, saying "Bandage applied" if the user is the player. 

```Lua hl_lines="2-4"
        end, timer.real)
	    if e.reference == tes3.player then
		    tes3.messageBox("Bandage applied")
	    end
	    return false
```

So now if we test it in game, and we use the bandage, it won't play the vfx. That's the first feature done. Next, we want the duration of the effect to vary depending on your character's survival skill. 

So let's create a variable called `duration` and use it in the table of effect we pass in the `applyMagicEffect()` function. And then create a function called `getEffectDuration()` that accepts `e.reference` as the argument and returns the duration to the `duration` variable. 

```Lua hl_lines="1-6 9 16"
---@param ref tes3reference
---@return integer duration
local function getEffectDuration(ref)
	local duration
	return duration
end
...
    if (e.item.id:find("^AB_alc_HealBandage")) then
		local duration = getEffectDuration(e.reference)
		tes3.applyMagicSource({
			reference = e.reference,
			name = "Bandage",
			effects = {
				{
					id = tes3.effect.restoreHealth,
					duration = duration,
					min = 1,
```

Next, we need to add our logic. Since only the player have Skills Module skills we want this survival-based duration feature to only affect the player. 

```Lua hl_lines="3-8"
local function getEffectDuration(ref)
    local duration
	if ref == tes3.player then
		
        return duration
	else
		return 30
	end
end
```

And for player, we get their survival skill level using the `getSkill()` function in the Skills Module library. And we use the `clamp()` function from the `math` library to clamp the skill level between 20 and 40. Then assign it to the return value `duration`.

```Lua hl_lines="2-3"
    if ref == tes3.player then
        local skillLevel = skillModule.getSkill("Ashfall:Survival").value
        duration = math.clamp(skillLevel, 20, 40)
		return duration
    else
```

Now, if our character is level 30 in survival, the effect should last for 30 seconds. And if they are level 100 in survival, the duration should be 40 seconds.

One last feature I want to add is that The healing efffect stops whenever the player gets hit. To do that we need to register both the `damaged` and `damagedHandToHand` events. We'll call the callback `removeBandageHealing`. 

```Lua hl_lines="1-4 7-8"
---@param e damagedEventData|damagedHandToHandEventData
local function removeBandageHealing(e)

end
...
    event.register("OAAB:equip", bandageEquipEvent)
    event.register("damaged", removeBandageHealing)
	event.register("damagedHandToHand", removeBandageHealing)
    log:info("Initialized")
```

```Lua hl_lines="2-8"
local function removeBandageHealing(e)
	for _, activeMagicEffect in ipairs(
	                            e.reference.mobile.activeMagicEffectList) do
		if activeMagicEffect.instance.source.name == "Bandage" then
			activeMagicEffect.effectInstance.timeActive =
			activeMagicEffect.duration
		end
	end
end
```